README.rst, before:

Cloudant-Python
===============

|Build Status| |Coverage Status| |PyPi version| |PyPi downloads|

An effortless Cloudant / CouchDB interface for Python 2.7 and 3.2+.

Install
-------

::

    pip install cloudant

Usage
-----

Cloudant-Python is a wrapper around Python
`Requests <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`__ for interacting
with CouchDB or Cloudant instances. Check it out:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    # connect to your account
    # in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
    USERNAME = 'garbados'
    account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME)

    # login, so we can make changes
    login = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
    assert login.status_code == 200

    # create a database object
    db = account.database('test')

    # now, create the database on the server
    response = db.put()
    print response.json()
    # {'ok': True}

HTTP requests return
`Response <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response>`__
objects, right from
`Requests <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`__.

Cloudant-Python can also make asynchronous requests by passing
``async=True`` to an object's constructor, like so:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    # connect to your account
    # in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
    USERNAME = 'garbados'
    account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME, async=True)

    # login, so we can make changes
    future = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
    # block until we get the response body
    login = future.result()
    assert login.status_code == 200

Asynchronous HTTP requests return
`Future <http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects>`__
objects, which will await the return of the HTTP response. Call
``result()`` to get the
`Response <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response>`__
object.

See the `API
reference <http://cloudant-labs.github.io/cloudant-python/#api>`__ for
all the details you could ever want.

Philosophy
----------

Cloudant-Python is minimal, performant, and effortless. Check it out:

Pythonisms
~~~~~~~~~~

Cloudant and CouchDB expose REST APIs that map easily into native Python
objects. As much as possible, Cloudant-Python uses native Python objects
as shortcuts to the raw API, so that such convenience never obscures
what's going on underneath. For example:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    # connect to http://localhost:5984
    account = cloudant.Account()
    db = account.database('test')
    same_db = account['test']
    assert db.uri == same_db.uri
    # True

Cloudant-Python expose raw interactions -- HTTP requests, etc. --
through special methods, so we provide syntactical sugar without
obscuring the underlying API. Built-ins, such as ``__getitem__``, act as
Pythonic shortcuts to those methods. For example:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account('garbados')

    db_name = 'test'
    db = account.database(db_name)
    doc = db.document('test_doc')

    # create the document
    resp = doc.put(params={
      '_id': 'hello_world',
      'herp': 'derp'
      })

    # delete the document
    rev = resp.json()['_rev']
    doc.delete(rev).raise_for_status()

    # but this also creates a document
    db['hello_world'] = {'herp': 'derp'}

    # and this deletes the database
    del account[db_name]

Iterate over Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Indexes, such as `views <https://cloudant.com/for-developers/views/>`__
and Cloudant's `search
indexes <https://cloudant.com/for-developers/search/>`__, act as
iterators. Check it out:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
    db = account.database('test')
    view = db.all_docs() # returns all docs in the database
    for doc in db:
      # iterates over every doc in the database
      pass
    for doc in view:
      # and so does this!
      pass
    for doc in view.iter(descending=True):
      # use `iter` to pass options to a view and then iterate over them
      pass

`Behind the
scenes <https://github.com/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/blob/master/cloudant/index.py#L23-L33>`__,
Cloudant-Python yields documents only as you consume them, so you only
load into memory the documents you're using.

Special Endpoints
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If CouchDB has a special endpoint for something, it's in Cloudant-Python
as a special method, so any special circumstances are taken care of
automagically. As a rule, any endpoint like ``_METHOD`` is in
Cloudant-Python as ``Object.METHOD``. For example:

-  ``https://garbados.cloudant.com/_all_dbs`` ->
   ``Account('garbados').all_dbs()``
-  ``http://localhost:5984/DB/_all_docs`` ->
   ``Account().database(DB).all_docs()``
-  ``http://localhost:5984/DB/_design/DOC/_view/INDEX`` ->
   ``Account().database(DB).design(DOC).view(INDEX)``

Asynchronous
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you instantiate an object with the ``async=True`` option, its HTTP
request methods (such as ``get`` and ``post``) will return
`Future <http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects>`__
objects, which represent an eventual response. This allows your code to
keep executing while the request is off doing its business in
cyberspace. To get the
`Response <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response>`__
object (waiting until it arrives if necessary) use the ``result``
method, like so:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account(async=True)
    db = account['test']
    future = db.put()
    response = future.result()
    print db.get().result().json()
    # {'db_name': 'test', ...}

As a result, any methods which must make an HTTP request return a
`Future <http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects>`__
object.

Option Inheritance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you use one object to create another, the child will inherit the
parents' settings. So, you can create a ``Database`` object explicitly,
or use ``Account.database`` to inherit cookies and other settings from
the ``Account`` object. For example:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
    db = account.database('test')
    doc = db.document('test_doc')

    url = 'https://garbados.cloudant.com'
    path = '/test/test_doc'
    otherdoc = cloudant.Document(url + path)

    assert doc.uri == otherdoc.uri
    # True

Testing
-------

To run Cloudant-Python's tests, just do:

::

    python setup.py test

Documentation
-------------

The API reference is automatically generated from the docstrings of each
class and its methods. To install Cloudant-Python with the necessary
extensions to build the docs, do this:

::

    pip install -e cloudant[docs]

Then, in Cloudant-Python's root directory, do this:

::

    python docs

Note: docstrings are in
`Markdown <http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>`__.

License
-------

`MIT <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>`__, yo.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python.png
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/badge.png
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python
.. |PyPi version| image:: https://pypip.in/v/cloudant/badge.png
   :target: https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/
.. |PyPi downloads| image:: https://pypip.in/d/cloudant/badge.png
   :target: https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/

Commit message:

Deprecates the 0.5.x branch of the cloudant python library.
Adds warnings to both READMEs.
Updates the version number in setup.py
Adds warning to __init__.py which prints to stderr.

README.rst, after:

Cloudant-Python
===============

This Version is Deprecated
--------------------------

As of 13 October 2015, this development branch is deprecated in favor of `the new 
development branch starting at version 2.0.0a1 <https://github.com/cloudant/python-cloudant>`_. 

**The new version will introduce breaking changes. No attempt was made to follow the 
API in 0.5.10.**

This is the final version of this branch -- 0.5.10. 

Please use the new library for your new projects and begin to migrate your old projects that have 
used versions 0.5.10 and prior. 

We will keep 0.5.10 as the latest stable version on PyPI until at least early 2016, at which time 
we plan to switch over completely to 2.0.0. 

Alpha and Beta versions starting with 2.0.0a1 will be uploaded to PyPI. The latest alpha 
or beta release may be installed by 

.. code-block:: python

    pip install --pre cloudant

Note that our new development branch is still in alpha. As such, we cannot make any guarantees, though 
we will try, of course, not to introduce new API that will later be removed.

|Build Status| |Coverage Status| |PyPi version| |PyPi downloads|

An effortless Cloudant / CouchDB interface for Python 2.7 and 3.2+.

Install
-------

::

    pip install cloudant

Usage
-----

Cloudant-Python is a wrapper around Python
`Requests <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`__ for interacting
with CouchDB or Cloudant instances. Check it out:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    # connect to your account
    # in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
    USERNAME = 'garbados'
    account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME)

    # login, so we can make changes
    login = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
    assert login.status_code == 200

    # create a database object
    db = account.database('test')

    # now, create the database on the server
    response = db.put()
    print response.json()
    # {'ok': True}

HTTP requests return
`Response <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response>`__
objects, right from
`Requests <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`__.

Cloudant-Python can also make asynchronous requests by passing
``async=True`` to an object's constructor, like so:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    # connect to your account
    # in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
    USERNAME = 'garbados'
    account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME, async=True)

    # login, so we can make changes
    future = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
    # block until we get the response body
    login = future.result()
    assert login.status_code == 200

Asynchronous HTTP requests return
`Future <http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects>`__
objects, which will await the return of the HTTP response. Call
``result()`` to get the
`Response <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response>`__
object.

See the `API
reference <http://cloudant-labs.github.io/cloudant-python/#api>`__ for
all the details you could ever want.

Philosophy
----------

Cloudant-Python is minimal, performant, and effortless. Check it out:

Pythonisms
~~~~~~~~~~

Cloudant and CouchDB expose REST APIs that map easily into native Python
objects. As much as possible, Cloudant-Python uses native Python objects
as shortcuts to the raw API, so that such convenience never obscures
what's going on underneath. For example:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    # connect to http://localhost:5984
    account = cloudant.Account()
    db = account.database('test')
    same_db = account['test']
    assert db.uri == same_db.uri
    # True

Cloudant-Python expose raw interactions -- HTTP requests, etc. --
through special methods, so we provide syntactical sugar without
obscuring the underlying API. Built-ins, such as ``__getitem__``, act as
Pythonic shortcuts to those methods. For example:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account('garbados')

    db_name = 'test'
    db = account.database(db_name)
    doc = db.document('test_doc')

    # create the document
    resp = doc.put(params={
      '_id': 'hello_world',
      'herp': 'derp'
      })

    # delete the document
    rev = resp.json()['_rev']
    doc.delete(rev).raise_for_status()

    # but this also creates a document
    db['hello_world'] = {'herp': 'derp'}

    # and this deletes the database
    del account[db_name]

Iterate over Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Indexes, such as `views <https://cloudant.com/for-developers/views/>`__
and Cloudant's `search
indexes <https://cloudant.com/for-developers/search/>`__, act as
iterators. Check it out:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
    db = account.database('test')
    view = db.all_docs() # returns all docs in the database
    for doc in db:
      # iterates over every doc in the database
      pass
    for doc in view:
      # and so does this!
      pass
    for doc in view.iter(descending=True):
      # use `iter` to pass options to a view and then iterate over them
      pass

`Behind the
scenes <https://github.com/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/blob/master/cloudant/index.py#L23-L33>`__,
Cloudant-Python yields documents only as you consume them, so you only
load into memory the documents you're using.

Special Endpoints
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If CouchDB has a special endpoint for something, it's in Cloudant-Python
as a special method, so any special circumstances are taken care of
automagically. As a rule, any endpoint like ``_METHOD`` is in
Cloudant-Python as ``Object.METHOD``. For example:

-  ``https://garbados.cloudant.com/_all_dbs`` ->
   ``Account('garbados').all_dbs()``
-  ``http://localhost:5984/DB/_all_docs`` ->
   ``Account().database(DB).all_docs()``
-  ``http://localhost:5984/DB/_design/DOC/_view/INDEX`` ->
   ``Account().database(DB).design(DOC).view(INDEX)``

Asynchronous
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you instantiate an object with the ``async=True`` option, its HTTP
request methods (such as ``get`` and ``post``) will return
`Future <http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects>`__
objects, which represent an eventual response. This allows your code to
keep executing while the request is off doing its business in
cyberspace. To get the
`Response <http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response>`__
object (waiting until it arrives if necessary) use the ``result``
method, like so:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account(async=True)
    db = account['test']
    future = db.put()
    response = future.result()
    print db.get().result().json()
    # {'db_name': 'test', ...}

As a result, any methods which must make an HTTP request return a
`Future <http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects>`__
object.

Option Inheritance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you use one object to create another, the child will inherit the
parents' settings. So, you can create a ``Database`` object explicitly,
or use ``Account.database`` to inherit cookies and other settings from
the ``Account`` object. For example:

.. code:: python

    import cloudant

    account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
    db = account.database('test')
    doc = db.document('test_doc')

    url = 'https://garbados.cloudant.com'
    path = '/test/test_doc'
    otherdoc = cloudant.Document(url + path)

    assert doc.uri == otherdoc.uri
    # True

Testing
-------

To run Cloudant-Python's tests, just do:

::

    python setup.py test

Documentation
-------------

The API reference is automatically generated from the docstrings of each
class and its methods. To install Cloudant-Python with the necessary
extensions to build the docs, do this:

::

    pip install -e cloudant[docs]

Then, in Cloudant-Python's root directory, do this:

::

    python docs

Note: docstrings are in
`Markdown <http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>`__.

License
-------

`MIT <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>`__, yo.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python.png
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/badge.png
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python
.. |PyPi version| image:: https://pypip.in/v/cloudant/badge.png
   :target: https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/
.. |PyPi downloads| image:: https://pypip.in/d/cloudant/badge.png
   :target: https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/
