readme.md, before:

# Cloudant-Python 

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python.png)](https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/badge.png)](https://coveralls.io/r/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python)
[![PyPi version](https://pypip.in/v/cloudant/badge.png)](https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/)
[![PyPi downloads](https://pypip.in/d/cloudant/badge.png)](https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/)

[futures]: http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects
[requests]: http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/
[responses]: http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response

An effortless Cloudant / CouchDB interface for Python.

## Install

    pip install cloudant

## Usage

Cloudant-Python is a wrapper around Python [Requests][requests] for interacting with CouchDB or Cloudant instances. Check it out:

```python
import cloudant

# connect to your account
# in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
USERNAME = 'garbados'
account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME)

# login, so we can make changes
login = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
assert login.status_code == 200

# create a database object
db = account.database('test')

# now, create the database on the server
response = db.put()
print response.json()
# {'ok': True}
```

HTTP requests return [Response][responses] objects, right from [Requests][requests].

Cloudant-Python can also make asynchronous requests by passing `async=True` to an object's constructor, like so:

```python
import cloudant

# connect to your account
# in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
USERNAME = 'garbados'
account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME, async=True)

# login, so we can make changes
future = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
# block until we get the response body
login = future.result()
assert login.status_code == 200
```

Asynchronous HTTP requests return [Future][futures] objects, which will await the return of the HTTP response. Call `result()` to get the [Response][responses] object.

See the [API reference](http://cloudant-labs.github.io/cloudant-python/#api) for all the details you could ever want.

## Philosophy

Cloudant-Python is minimal, performant, and effortless. Check it out:

### Pythonisms

Cloudant and CouchDB expose REST APIs that map easily into native Python objects. As much as possible, Cloudant-Python uses native Python objects as shortcuts to the raw API, so that such convenience never obscures what's going on underneath. For example:

```python
import cloudant

# connect to http://localhost:5984
account = cloudant.Account()
db = account.database('test')
same_db = account['test']
assert db.uri == same_db.uri
# True
```

Cloudant-Python expose raw interactions -- HTTP requests, etc. -- through special methods, so we provide syntactical sugar without obscuring the underlying API. Built-ins, such as `__getitem__`, act as Pythonic shortcuts to those methods. For example:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account('garbados')

db_name = 'test'
db = account.database(db_name)
doc = db.document('test_doc')

# create the document
resp = doc.put(params={
  '_id': 'hello_world',
  'herp': 'derp'
  })

# delete the document
rev = resp.json()['_rev']
doc.delete(rev).raise_for_status()

# but this also creates a document
db['hello_world'] = {'herp': 'derp'}

# and this deletes the database
del account[db_name]
```

### Iterate over Indexes

Indexes, such as [views](https://cloudant.com/for-developers/views/) and Cloudant's [search indexes](https://cloudant.com/for-developers/search/), act as iterators. Check it out:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
db = account.database('test')
view = db.all_docs() # returns all docs in the database
for doc in db:
  # iterates over every doc in the database
  pass
for doc in view:
  # and so does this!
  pass
for doc in view.iter(descending=True):
  # use `iter` to pass options to a view and then iterate over them
  pass
```

[Behind the scenes](https://github.com/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/blob/master/cloudant/index.py#L23-L33), Cloudant-Python yields documents only as you consume them, so you only load into memory the documents you're using.

### Special Endpoints

If CouchDB has a special endpoint for something, it's in Cloudant-Python as a special method, so any special circumstances are taken care of automagically. As a rule, any endpoint like `_METHOD` is in Cloudant-Python as `Object.METHOD`. For example:

* `https://garbados.cloudant.com/_all_dbs` -> `Account('garbados').all_dbs()`
* `http://localhost:5984/DB/_all_docs` -> `Account().database(DB).all_docs()`
* `http://localhost:5984/DB/_design/DOC/_view/INDEX` -> `Account().database(DB).design(DOC).view(INDEX)`

### Asynchronous

If you instantiate an object with the `async=True` option, its HTTP request methods (such as `get` and `post`) will return [Future][futures] objects, which represent an eventual response. This allows your code to keep executing while the request is off doing its business in cyberspace. To get the [Response][responses] object (waiting until it arrives if necessary) use the `result` method, like so:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account(async=True)
db = account['test']
future = db.put()
response = future.result()
print db.get().result().json()
# {'db_name': 'test', ...}
```

As a result, any methods which must make an HTTP request return a [Future][futures] object.

### Option Inheritance

If you use one object to create another, the child will inherit the parents' settings. So, you can create a `Database` object explicitly, or use `Account.database` to inherit cookies and other settings from the `Account` object. For example:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
db = account.database('test')
doc = db.document('test_doc')

url = 'https://garbados.cloudant.com'
path = '/test/test_doc'
otherdoc = cloudant.Document(url + path)

assert doc.uri == otherdoc.uri
# True
```

## Testing

To run Cloudant-Python's tests, just do:

    python setup.py test

## Documentation

The API reference is automatically generated from the docstrings of each class and its methods. To install Cloudant-Python with the necessary extensions to build the docs, do this:

    pip install -e cloudant[docs]

Then, in Cloudant-Python's root directory, do this:

    python docs

Note: docstrings are in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/).

## License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), yo.

Commit message:

Deprecates the 0.5.x branch of the cloudant python library.
Adds warnings to both READMEs.
Updates the version number in setup.py
Adds warning to __init__.py which prints to stderr.

readme.md, after:

# Cloudant-Python 

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python.png)](https://travis-ci.org/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/badge.png)](https://coveralls.io/r/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python)
[![PyPi version](https://pypip.in/v/cloudant/badge.png)](https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/)
[![PyPi downloads](https://pypip.in/d/cloudant/badge.png)](https://crate.io/packages/cloudant/)

[futures]: http://docs.python.org/dev/library/concurrent.futures.html#future-objects
[requests]: http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/
[responses]: http://www.python-requests.org/en/latest/api/#requests.Response

## This Library is Deprecated

As of 13 October 2015, this library is deprecated in favor of [a completely rewritten Python library for 
interfacing with Cloudant and CouchDB servers](https://github.com/cloudant/python-cloudant). 


## Install

    pip install cloudant

## Usage

Cloudant-Python is a wrapper around Python [Requests][requests] for interacting with CouchDB or Cloudant instances. Check it out:

```python
import cloudant

# connect to your account
# in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
USERNAME = 'garbados'
account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME)

# login, so we can make changes
login = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
assert login.status_code == 200

# create a database object
db = account.database('test')

# now, create the database on the server
response = db.put()
print response.json()
# {'ok': True}
```

HTTP requests return [Response][responses] objects, right from [Requests][requests].

Cloudant-Python can also make asynchronous requests by passing `async=True` to an object's constructor, like so:

```python
import cloudant

# connect to your account
# in this case, https://garbados.cloudant.com
USERNAME = 'garbados'
account = cloudant.Account(USERNAME, async=True)

# login, so we can make changes
future = account.login(USERNAME, PASSWORD)
# block until we get the response body
login = future.result()
assert login.status_code == 200
```

Asynchronous HTTP requests return [Future][futures] objects, which will await the return of the HTTP response. Call `result()` to get the [Response][responses] object.

See the [API reference](http://cloudant-labs.github.io/cloudant-python/#api) for all the details you could ever want.

## Philosophy

Cloudant-Python is minimal, performant, and effortless. Check it out:

### Pythonisms

Cloudant and CouchDB expose REST APIs that map easily into native Python objects. As much as possible, Cloudant-Python uses native Python objects as shortcuts to the raw API, so that such convenience never obscures what's going on underneath. For example:

```python
import cloudant

# connect to http://localhost:5984
account = cloudant.Account()
db = account.database('test')
same_db = account['test']
assert db.uri == same_db.uri
# True
```

Cloudant-Python expose raw interactions -- HTTP requests, etc. -- through special methods, so we provide syntactical sugar without obscuring the underlying API. Built-ins, such as `__getitem__`, act as Pythonic shortcuts to those methods. For example:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account('garbados')

db_name = 'test'
db = account.database(db_name)
doc = db.document('test_doc')

# create the document
resp = doc.put(params={
  '_id': 'hello_world',
  'herp': 'derp'
  })

# delete the document
rev = resp.json()['_rev']
doc.delete(rev).raise_for_status()

# but this also creates a document
db['hello_world'] = {'herp': 'derp'}

# and this deletes the database
del account[db_name]
```

### Iterate over Indexes

Indexes, such as [views](https://cloudant.com/for-developers/views/) and Cloudant's [search indexes](https://cloudant.com/for-developers/search/), act as iterators. Check it out:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
db = account.database('test')
view = db.all_docs() # returns all docs in the database
for doc in db:
  # iterates over every doc in the database
  pass
for doc in view:
  # and so does this!
  pass
for doc in view.iter(descending=True):
  # use `iter` to pass options to a view and then iterate over them
  pass
```

[Behind the scenes](https://github.com/cloudant-labs/cloudant-python/blob/master/cloudant/index.py#L23-L33), Cloudant-Python yields documents only as you consume them, so you only load into memory the documents you're using.

### Special Endpoints

If CouchDB has a special endpoint for something, it's in Cloudant-Python as a special method, so any special circumstances are taken care of automagically. As a rule, any endpoint like `_METHOD` is in Cloudant-Python as `Object.METHOD`. For example:

* `https://garbados.cloudant.com/_all_dbs` -> `Account('garbados').all_dbs()`
* `http://localhost:5984/DB/_all_docs` -> `Account().database(DB).all_docs()`
* `http://localhost:5984/DB/_design/DOC/_view/INDEX` -> `Account().database(DB).design(DOC).view(INDEX)`

### Asynchronous

If you instantiate an object with the `async=True` option, its HTTP request methods (such as `get` and `post`) will return [Future][futures] objects, which represent an eventual response. This allows your code to keep executing while the request is off doing its business in cyberspace. To get the [Response][responses] object (waiting until it arrives if necessary) use the `result` method, like so:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account(async=True)
db = account['test']
future = db.put()
response = future.result()
print db.get().result().json()
# {'db_name': 'test', ...}
```

As a result, any methods which must make an HTTP request return a [Future][futures] object.

### Option Inheritance

If you use one object to create another, the child will inherit the parents' settings. So, you can create a `Database` object explicitly, or use `Account.database` to inherit cookies and other settings from the `Account` object. For example:

```python
import cloudant

account = cloudant.Account('garbados')
db = account.database('test')
doc = db.document('test_doc')

url = 'https://garbados.cloudant.com'
path = '/test/test_doc'
otherdoc = cloudant.Document(url + path)

assert doc.uri == otherdoc.uri
# True
```

## Testing

To run Cloudant-Python's tests, just do:

    python setup.py test

## Documentation

The API reference is automatically generated from the docstrings of each class and its methods. To install Cloudant-Python with the necessary extensions to build the docs, do this:

    pip install -e cloudant[docs]

Then, in Cloudant-Python's root directory, do this:

    python docs

Note: docstrings are in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/).

## License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), yo.
